update post "Deploy a .NET Container with AWS ECS Fargate" (#997)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2022-01-18-deploy-dotnet-container-aws-fargate.md

---
layout: blog_post
title: "How to Deploy a .NET Container with AWS ECS Fargate"
author: [deepu-sasidharan, chase-aucoin]
by: advocate

> communities: [.net]

Reviewer: Is there a "devops" community we should add?

Author: good point, i believe there is one I added, I'll update

description: "This is a tutorial on how to secure your .NET containerized chat app with AWS ECS Fargate and Okta."
tags: [containers, aws, fargate, c-sharp, csharp, dotnet, dot-net, asp-dot-net, vuejs]
tweets:
  - "Ever played with AWS Fargate? Learn how to authenticate users to your #dotnetcore #container hosted in #aws ->."
  - "Unsure about #containerized #dotnet with #Fargate in #AWS? We've got a primer just waiting for you ->"
  - "Learn how to create secure .NET #containers in #AWS with Fargate ->"
image: blog/featured/okta-dotnet-mouse-down.jpg
type: conversion
---

> In a previous article, we learned [how to host a serverless .NET application using AWS Lambda](/blog/2020/06/08/serverless-lambda-functions-csharp). We talked about the history of serverless and how companies are using these types of technology to simplify delivering APIs and functionality faster than traditional methods. Some problems will arise in this type of application when you need more capability than your standard HTTP requests like GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, etc. Web Sockets is a great example of this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a previous article, we learned [how to host a serverless .NET application using AWS Lambda](/blog/2020/06/08/serverless-lambda-functions-csharp). We talked about the history of serverless and how companies are using these types of technology to simplify delivering APIs and functionality faster than traditional methods. Some problems will arise in this type of application when you need more capability than standard HTTP requests like GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, etc. Web Sockets is a great example of this.
```
conciseness

{% include toc.md %}

> ## Understanding Containers vs. Virtual Machines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Understanding containers vs. virtual machines
```
sentence cae

> Around 2013, [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) was released, beginning a shift in how we think about hosting applications and managing infrastructure. Infrastructure teams and operations have been leveraging Virtual Machines with great success for decades, so you may be tempted to think, "isn't this just a virtual machine?" In spirit, yes; in application, no.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In 2013, [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) was released, beginning a shift in how we think about hosting applications and managing infrastructure. Infrastructure teams and operations had been leveraging *virtual machines* with great success for decades, so you may be tempted to think, "isn't this just a virtual machine?" In spirit, yes; in application, no.
```
preciseness, style guide - avoid capitalizing common nouns, use italics to call out terminology on first use

> To talk about containers, we have to talk about Virtual Machines. A virtual machine (VM) is a virtual representation of a computer all the way from its boot process to loading an entire operating system. This provides a lot of flexibility because you gain fine-grained control over an entire virtual computer, but it brings all the pitfalls of a whole computer as well. The operating system has to be maintained, patched, and updated; disks have to be managed, and all manner of operational overhead goes into their care and feeding. Notably, VMs are also huge because an entire OS has to go on them. So when you start a VM, you have to go through the entire boot sequence of a traditional computer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To talk about containers, we have to talk about virtual machines. A virtual machine (VM) is a virtual representation of a computer, all the way from its boot process to loading an entire operating system (OS). This provides a lot of flexibility. You gain fine-grained control over an entire virtual computer, as well as all the pitfalls of a whole computer. The operating system has to be maintained, patched, and updated; disks have to be managed, and all manner of operational overhead goes into their care and feeding. Notably, VMs are huge because an entire OS has to go on them. So when you start a VM, you have to go through the entire boot sequence of a traditional computer.
```
conciseness, varied sentence length for readability + avoid missing context by removing "it"

> These are the three problem areas that containers hope to solve; Ease of management, size, and speed to start. There are others, but for simplicity, we will focus on those three as I feel (IMHO) they are the most relevant to business processes. Containers differ from a traditional virtual machine in one significant way. They do not have an actual Operating System. This may come as a surprise to you, even if you might have dabbled with containers before. Containers instead have an abstraction of an operating system that provides hooks into the host operating system using standards and conventions supplied by the container system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are three major problem areas that containers hope to solve: ease of management, size, and speed to start. There are others, but for simplicity, I will focus on those that are the most relevant to business processes. Containers differ from traditional virtual machines in one significant way. They do not have an actual OS. This may come as a surprise to you, even if you've dabbled in containers before. Instead, containers rely on an abstraction of an operating system that provides hooks into the host OS using standards and conventions supplied by the container system.
```
conciseness, clarity, alignment of singular/plural noun usage in a single sentence
colon, not semi-colon in opening sentence

> Docker is the de facto container standard for all practical purposes, but other container technologies do exist. The notion of a standardized container comes from the shipping industry. In shipping, there was no standardization, which made transport difficult because you had to figure out how to hold each item on a boat, train, or truck. Containers provided a standard format for moving goods "you can put whatever you want inside the container so long as it conforms to a standard set of dimensions and can be opened and bolted down in a uniform way." This simplified the logistical process of moving real-world items. In this same way, standardizing the way a software container interacts with its host OS to delegate the responsibility for executing tasks simplifies management of the most crucial part, the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Docker is the de facto container standard for all practical purposes, but other container technologies do exist. The notion of a standardized container comes from the shipping industry. In shipping, there was no standardization, which made transport difficult because you had to figure out how to hold each item on a boat, train, or truck. Containers provided a standard format for moving goods: "You can put whatever you want inside the container so long as it conforms to a standard set of dimensions and can be opened and bolted down in a uniform way." This simplified the logistical process of moving real-world items. In this same way, standardizing the way a software container interacts with its host OS to delegate the responsibility for executing tasks simplifies management of the most crucial part, the application.
```
punctuation

> ## Hosting Containers with AWS ECS Fargate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Hosting containers with AWS ECS Fargate
```
sentence case

Now that we have a better idea of what makes a container different from a virtual machine, how does this solve our three problems?

> First, it makes management easier by letting us write build scripts to create a stable, repeatable representation of the host needed to do the body of work needed by the application. Second, since an OS ultimately hosts the container, that OS can enforce company policy and security policies, so at worst, any container can only do at most that much. For example, if the host OS only allows traffic inbound from a specific subnet and port, the container cannot override that as it is ultimately bound by the host OS's networking rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, containers make management easier by letting us write build scripts to create a stable, repeatable representation of the host. This is needed to do the body of work required by the application. Second, since an OS ultimately hosts the container, that OS can enforce company and security policies.  In the worst case, this would be the most a given container could do. For example, if the host OS only allows traffic inbound from a specific subnet and port, the container cannot override this restriction. The container is ultimately bound by the host OS's networking rules.
```
simplifying complex multi-clause sentences for reabability

> This kind of management reliability continues into data management, memory management, and any other policies that need to be enforced. This ultimately creates a great deal of business agility as operations can reliably open the doors to developers knowing that they have some established rails. As for size, without the need for a whole OS, your container images are often only a few MB, vs. many GB. On the topic of speed, since there isn't a complete boot cycle, the container can effectively start up as fast as the hosted application can start.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This kind of management reliability continues into data management, memory management, and any other policies that need to be enforced. Ultimately, the result here is business agility. Operations can open the doors to developers knowing that established guide rails are in place. As for size–our second key problem area–since you no longer need a whole OS, container images are often as small as a few MB vs. many GB. On the topic of speed–our third key problem area–since there isn't a complete boot cycle, the container can effectively start up as fast as the hosted application.
```
conciseness, context

Author: Thank you this is much better

> The difficulty with containers moves further up the abstraction chain (as is the style of such things) than with Virtual Machines. The challenge comes down to networking and managing container images across many resources so that you can treat a set of computing as one homogeneous unit. Fortunately, there are many solutions for this with products like Kubernetes, OpenShift, Mesos, Nomad, and others. But with this, you are ultimately back to having to manage a fleet of computers along with all the management overhead that goes along with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The difficulty with containers moves further up the abstraction chain (as is the style of such things) than virtual machines. The challenge comes down to networking and managing container images across many resources so that you can treat a set of computing as one homogeneous unit. Fortunately, products like Kubernetes, OpenShift, Mesos, Nomad, and others can help you solve these challenges. However, you are ultimately back to managing a fleet of computers along with the associated management overhead.
```
clarity, conciseness

> This is the sweet spot of AWS Elastic Container Service (ECS) Fargate. Fargate gives you networking abstractions across a virtual network known as a VPC (Virtual Private Cloud). This network abstraction is built right into the heart of AWS and is well vetted for any type of workload, including high-security government workloads. Fargate takes this a step further by abstracting away the machine management. You can set up traditional clusters and manage your machines if you want, but leveraging Fargate simplifies one more part of your process. Ultimately our goal with using cloud vendors in the first place is to let them be good at infrastructure management so we can be good at managing our business.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the sweet spot of AWS Elastic Container Service (ECS) Fargate. Fargate gives you networking abstractions across a virtual network known as a VPC (virtual private cloud). This network abstraction is built right into the heart of AWS and is well vetted for any type of workload, including high-security government workloads. Fargate takes this a step further by abstracting away the machine management. You can set up traditional clusters and manage your machines if you want, but leveraging Fargate simplifies one more part of your process. Ultimately the goal with using cloud vendors is to let them handle the infrastructure management so we can focus on managing our business.
```
clarity

> Time to jump into it and try it out using .NET containers with AWS Fargate!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Time to jump in and try out .NET containers with AWS Fargate!
```
conciseness

**What you will need to get started**

What you'll need to continue are the following:

- Basic knowledge of .NET
- [.NET SDK 3.1](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-in/dotnet/core/install/)
- [An AWS account (we'll be using a free tier product)](https://aws.amazon.com/free)
- [Okta CLI](https://cli.okta.com)
- [AWS CLI V2](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/)
- [Docker Desktop for Windows/macOS (Not required if you are on Linux)](https://www.docker.com/get-started)

This tutorial assumes you already have Docker set up and running.

> ## Build and Dockerize a .NET Chat Application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Build and dockerize a .NET chat application
```
style guide - sentence case

> So what do you want to build? To keep things simple so we can see the value in using something other than standard HTTP protocols, I'll use SignalR to build a very basic chat application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So what do you want to build? To keep things simple and see the value in using something other than standard HTTP protocols, I'll use SignalR to build a very basic chat application.
```

- Secure: Only logged-in clients should be able to use the chat functionality

> - Chat users names must come from their validated identity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Chat users' names must come from their validated identity
```
punctuation

- Real-time

> To achieve this, I am going to use four technologies:

Reviewer: The upcoming section goes forward using first-person "I" - our InfoDev Style Guide recommends very limited use of "I" and "we" in favor of you. I don't advise any rewriting, so this guidance for going forward. Have a look here: https://oktawiki.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DOC/pages/722929640/InfoDev+Style+Guide (under Voice, and their pointer to "Person" here: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/grammar/person

Author: corrected

- Okta for identity management
- .NET to host the application
- SignalR to provide the socket management abstraction
- Vue.js to provide the rendering for the front-end

> ### Authentication for Your .NET Chat App

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Authentication for Your .NET chat app
```
consistent case

> Authentication is vital in any application, but doubly so when you need to depend on who someone is. I used to roll all my own security services, but I don't anymore because there are too many threat verticals and too much for me to care to manage. I'd rather delegate that responsibility to another company that can focus solely on those concerns so I can focus entirely on my business. I personally like using Okta for this purpose. I work with customers with many applications across many languages and vendors; Okta makes it really easy to incorporate all of them into one management pipeline to delegate access to those who need it and shut down access across the entire suite of applications if a bad actor gets a set of credentials.

Reviewer: This section doesn't seem right coming from you as an Okta employee. This part must have been written by Chase but it feels dissonant to me in a fresh post. Is there a way to rewrite the key message without sounding like a product pitch? Maybe something like this: 

Authentication is vital in any application, but doubly so when you need to depend on who someone is. Many developers who used to roll their own security services, now delegate that responsibility to a third party so they can focus solely on their own business. Nowadays there are too many threat verticals and so much to manage. Okta makes it easy to incorporate many applications across many languages and vendors into one management pipeline. You can delegate access to those who need it and shut down access across the entire suite of applications if a bad actor gets a set of credentials.

Author: i'll rewrite this and yes you are right this comes from previous post

{% include setup/cli.md type="web" loginRedirectUri="http://localhost:5000/authorization-code/callback" %}

Note the **Issuer URL** and **Client ID**. You will need this in the next step.

> > **Note**: To test out your chat application, don't forget to manually add a second user to your Okta org to use for that purpose. Log in to your Okta org and navigate to the **Directory** > **People** page. Click the **Add person** button and fill out the form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note**: To test out your chat application, don't forget to manually add a second user to your Okta org. Log in to your Okta org and navigate to the **Directory** > **People** page. Click the **Add person** button and fill out the form.
```
conciseness

> ### Setup a .NET Core Web Application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Set up a .NET Core web application
```
sentence case style

> Let us create a new ASP.NET Core Web Application using the `dotnet` CLI. Navigate to the location where you want to create the project and run the following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let us create a new ASP.NET Core web application using the `dotnet` CLI. Navigate to the location where you want to create the project and run the following command.
```
style guide - case

    services.AddSignalR();
}
```

Make sure to add imports.

```cs
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.Cookies;
using Okta.AspNetCore;
using Okta.Blog.Chat.Hubs;
```

This will add the authentication provider, set the page **Chat** as an authorized page, and add SignalR support.

Next, modify the method `Configure(IApplicationBuilder app, IWebHostEnvironment env)` to look like the code below. I've commented out a line that we will use later during our SignalR setup.

```cs
public void Configure(IApplicationBuilder app, IWebHostEnvironment env)
{
    if (env.IsDevelopment())
    {
        app.UseDeveloperExceptionPage();
    }
    else
    {
        app.UseExceptionHandler("/Error");
        // The default HSTS value is 30 days. You may want to change this for production scenarios, see https://aka.ms/aspnetcore-hsts.
        app.UseHsts();
    }

    app.UseHttpsRedirection();
    app.UseStaticFiles();

    app.UseRouting();

    app.UseAuthentication();
    app.UseAuthorization();

    app.UseEndpoints(endpoints =>
    {
        endpoints.MapRazorPages();
        //endpoints.MapHub<ChatHub>("/chathub");
    });
}
```

The key difference here is `app.UseAuthentication();`.

> Next, create a new folder called **Hubs** and a new class file in that folder called **ChatHub.cs** this will provide our chat back-end.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, create a new folder called **Hubs** and a new class file in that folder called **ChatHub.cs**.  This will provide our chat backend.
```
fix run-on sentence
backend per style guide

```cs
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.SignalR;
using System.Threading.Tasks;

namespace Okta.Blog.Chat.Hubs
{
    public class ChatHub : Hub
    {
        public async Task SendMessage(string message)
        {
            if (this.Context.User.Identity.IsAuthenticated)
                await Clients.All.SendAsync("ReceiveMessage", this.Context.User.Identity.Name, message);
        }
    }
}
```

> You'll see in this ChatHub we've made use of the users' authentication status. This way, even if someone knows the back-end is SignalR, we've mitigated their ability to use the system unless explicitly authenticated. Any additional authorization logic could go here as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll see in this ChatHub we've made use of the user's authentication status. This way, even if someone knows the backend is SignalR, we've mitigated their ability to use the system unless explicitly authenticated. Any additional authorization logic could go here as well.
```
i think this refers to a single user.

Next, you need to make sure you have the pages you need. In the **Pages** folder, go ahead and delete the page **Privacy.cshtml** and **Privacy.cshtml.cs** and add a new page named **Chat.cshtml** by running the following command from the **Pages** folder.

```bash
dotnet new page -n Chat
```

Edit **Pages/Shared/\_Layout.cshtml** and modify the second nav item from this:

```html
<a class="nav-link text-dark" asp-area="" asp-page="/Privacy">Privacy</a>
```

To this:

```html
<a class="nav-link text-dark" asp-area="" asp-page="/Chat">Chat</a>
```

> At this point, if you run the `dotnet run` command or run the application from Visual Studio, you should be able to navigate to the chat page that just has the heading **"Chat"**. Make sure that it runs successfully before moving on to the next step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, if you run the `dotnet run` command or run the application from Visual Studio, you should be able to navigate to the chat page with the heading **"Chat"**. Make sure that it runs successfully before moving on to the next step.
```
conciseness

> ### Add Docker Support to Your .NET Chat Application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Add Docker support to your .NET chat application
```

> Before you add the chat functionality, add the Docker support. Add a file named **Dockerfile** to the root **Okta.Blog.Chat** folder with below content in it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you add the chat functionality, add the Docker support. Add a file named **Dockerfile** to the root **Okta.Blog.Chat** folder with the following content:
```
style guide

```docker
# build and publish the app
FROM mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/sdk:3.1-bullseye AS build
WORKDIR /src
## copy csproj and restore as distinct layers
COPY Okta.Blog.Chat.csproj ./
RUN dotnet restore
## copy everything else and publish app
COPY . ./
RUN dotnet publish -c release -o /app --no-restore

# final stage/image
FROM mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/aspnet:3.1-bullseye-slim AS base
WORKDIR /app
COPY --from=build /app ./
ENTRYPOINT ["dotnet", "Okta.Blog.Chat.dll"]
```

> What is going on is we are building and publishing our application first. Next, we copy the build files and call `ENTRYPOINT`, which translates to "run dotnet with our published DLL" - nothing extraordinary, right? The `FROM` keywords are using other built docker files as base images to build our image from, so all the work of installing .NET etc., is already done.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are building and publishing our application first. Next, we copy the build files and call `ENTRYPOINT`, which translates to "run dotnet with our published DLL" - nothing extraordinary, right? The `FROM` keywords use other built docker files as base images to build our image from, so the work of installing .NET is already done.
```
conciseness

Now add a **.dockerignore** file with the below content so that they are not copied to the final image.

```
**/.dockerignore
**/.git
**/.vscode
**/bin
**/obj
```

If you use Visual Studio, you'll now have the ability to debug right into a running container in your debug toolbar. If you press **F5** or click the play button, you'll run your app in a Docker Container.

{% img blog/dotnet-aws-ecs-fargate/11-DebugDocker.PNG alt:"VS Docker debug" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

If you are not using Visual Studio, run the following command to build and start the container.

```bash
docker build . -t okta-chat
docker run -it --rm -p 5000:80 okta-chat
```

The app should be accessible at `http://localhost:5000/`.

> ### Authorize Your Chat App

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Authorize Your chat app
```
consistent case

> If you are using Visual Studio, you'll see you now have the ability to debug right into a running container in your debug toolbar. If you press **F5** or click the play button, you'll run your app in a Docker Container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use Visual Studio, you'll now have the ability to debug right into a running container in your debug toolbar. If you press **F5** or click the play button, you'll run your app in a Docker Container.
```
conciseness

Modify **Setup.cs** and uncomment the following line.

```cs
options.Conventions.AuthorizePage("/Chat");
```

> > **Note**: At this point, if you try to authenticate the `/Chat` path using Google Chrome, you'll get an error. This is because we are running the app without TLS and Chrome blocks set-cookie headers with `SameSite=None` when the `Secure` attribute is not present, which will be preset only for HTTPS requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note**: At this point, if you try to authenticate the `/Chat` path using Google Chrome, you'll get an error. This is because we are running the app without TLS and Chrome blocks set-cookie headers with `SameSite=None` when the `Secure` attribute is not present (which will be preset only for HTTPS requests).
```
clarity

Let's make sure our docker container can run with HTTPS.

First, we need to create a certificate. We can use the .NET CLI for creating self-signed certificates for development. Please note that this is only for development purposes and should not be used in production.

> Run the following command to create a self-signed certificate. Use the right command based on the OS you are using and use an appropriate password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following command to create a self-signed certificate. Use the correct command based on your OS and use an appropriate password.
```
removes ambiguity

```bash
# clean existing certs if any
dotnet dev-certs https --clean
# create a new cert on macOS/Linux
dotnet dev-certs https -ep ${HOME}/.aspnet/https/aspnetapp.pfx -p mypass123
# create a new cert on Windows
dotnet dev-certs https -ep %USERPROFILE%\.aspnet\https\aspnetapp.pfx -p mypass123
# trust the cert
dotnet dev-certs https --trust
```

> Now we can run the container with HTTPS using the below command as we will use the certificate we created above and mount it as a volume.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we can run the container with HTTPS using the below command. We will use the certificate we created above and mount it as a volume.
```

```bash
# macOS/Linux
docker run -it --rm -p 5000:80 -p 5001:443 -e ASPNETCORE_URLS="https://+;http://+" -e ASPNETCORE_HTTPS_PORT=5001 -e ASPNETCORE_Kestrel__Certificates__Default__Password="mypass123" -e ASPNETCORE_Kestrel__Certificates__Default__Path=/https/aspnetapp.pfx -v ${HOME}/.aspnet/https:/https/ okta-chat

# Windows
docker run -it --rm -p 5000:80 -p 5001:443 -e ASPNETCORE_URLS="https://+;http://+" -e ASPNETCORE_HTTPS_PORT=5001 -e ASPNETCORE_Kestrel__Certificates__Default__Password="mypass123" -e ASPNETCORE_Kestrel__Certificates__Default__Path=/https/aspnetapp.pfx -v %USERPROFILE%\.aspnet\https:/https/ okta-chat
```

The app should be accessible at `https://localhost:5001/` now.

> In your Okta Developer Portal, go to **Applications** > **Applications** and click the application's name you created using the CLI. Edit the **General Settings** and add URI for **Sign-in redirect URIs** and **Sign-out redirect URIs** as below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your Okta Developer Portal, go to **Applications** > **Applications** and click the application name you created using the CLI. Edit the **General Settings**, and add URI for **Sign-in redirect URIs** and **Sign-out redirect URIs** as below:
```
punctuation

```bash
Sign-in redirect URI = https://localhost:5001/authorization-code/callback
Sign-out redirect URI = https://localhost:5001/
```

> Try running the application, and you should see that to open the chat page, you'll be redirected to the Okta Single Sign-On portal and redirected back. You are now successfully authenticated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Try running the application.  You should see that to open the chat page, you'll be redirected to the Okta Single Sign-On portal and then redirected back. You are now successfully authenticated.
```
sentence length

> ### Add Chat Functionality with Vue.js and SignalR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Add chat functionality with Vue.js and SignalR
```
style guide - case

> I'll be using Vue for state management since you can take as little or as much as you want. Sometimes it feels like you gotta buy the whole farm just to get a little milk these days when it comes to developing front-end technologies, but I like that with Vue, I can start with a CDN script tag and use it for a single component, a single page, or dive deep with a robust build system on Node. For this exercise, we'll be using a CDN-hosted script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll use Vue for state management since you can take as little or as much as you want. With Vue, you. can start with a CDN script tag and use it for a single component, a single page, or a deep dive with a robust build system on Node. For this exercise, we'll be using a CDN-hosted script.
```
eliminating folksy colloquialisms that may be unfamiliar/hard to understand for many readers. 
moving toward 2nd person voice ("you") as recommended in style guide

> But first, you need to finish one thing on the back-end.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But first, you need to finish one thing on the backend.
```
style guide

> Since you have created your **ChatHub.cs**, open **Startup.cs** and uncomment the following line

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since you have created your **ChatHub.cs**, open **Startup.cs** and uncomment the following line:
```
punctuation

  const VueChatApp = {
    data() {
      return {
        isConnected: false,
        message: "",
        chatLog: [],
      };
    },
    mounted() {
      connection.on("ReceiveMessage", (user, message) => {
        this.receiveMessage(user, message);
      });
      connection
        .start()
        .then(() => {
          this.isConnected = true;
        })
        .catch((err) => {
          return console.error(err.toString());
        });
    },
    methods: {
      receiveMessage(user, message) {
        this.chatLog.push({
          User: user,
          Message: message,
        });
      },
      sendMessage() {
        connection
          .invoke("SendMessage", this.message)
          .then(() => {
            this.message = "";
          })
          .catch((err) => {
            return console.error(err.toString());
          });
      },
    },
  };

  Vue.createApp(VueChatApp).mount("#chatApp");
</script>
```

{% endraw %}

We use CDN for the SignalR client library, and the connection to the ChatHub uses the endpoint you set earlier:

```js
const connection = new signalR.HubConnectionBuilder().withUrl("/chatHub").build();
```

> The state is stored in the data section of our Vue app. There are three properties in use; A flag to let us know if it is connected, the message currently being typed, and a chat log.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The state is stored in the data section of our Vue app. There are three properties in use: a flag to let us know if it is connected, the message currently being typed, and a chat log.
```
colon not semi-colon is the correct punctuation for a list like this.

```js
data() {
  return {
    isConnected: false,
    message: "",
    chatLog: [],
  }
},
```

Your app has two methods: `receiveMessage` and `sendMessage`.

> When `receiveMessage` is called, it just appends an object to the chat log with the user and the message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When `receiveMessage` is called, it appends an object to the chat log with the user and the message.
```
just is nearly always unnecessary, a 'filler' word

When `sendMessage` is called, we use the SignalR connection to invoke "SendMessage" and pass along our message properties. Once the message is sent, we blank it out to fill a new message.

```js
receiveMessage(user, message) {
  this.chatLog.push({
    User: user,
    Message: message,
  });
},
sendMessage() {
  connection
    .invoke("SendMessage", this.message)
    .then(() => {
      this.message = "";
    })
    .catch((err) => {
      return console.error(err.toString());
    });
},
```

When the app is created, a hook is added for "ReceiveMessage" that calls the ViewModel `receiveMessage` method described previously.

Then the connection to the hub is started, and if successful, `isConnected` is set to true.

```js
connection.on("ReceiveMessage", (user, message) => {
  this.receiveMessage(user, message);
});
connection
  .start()
  .then(() => {
    this.isConnected = true;
  })
  .catch((err) => {
    return console.error(err.toString());
  });
```

If you run your application at this point, you'll have a secured chat application running in a container!

> ## Deploy Your .NET Chat Application to AWS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Deploy your .NET chat application to AWS
```

> Now that the chat application is complete, it's time to deploy it. First, we need to build the docker image and deploy it to AWS to be used. AWS has private container repositories via its Elastic Container Registry (ECR) product.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that the chat application is complete, it's time to deploy. First, we need to build the docker image and deploy it for use in AWS. AWS has private container repositories via its Elastic Container Registry (ECR) product.
```
clarity

> ### Create an ECR Repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create an ECR repository
```
style guide

First, we need to make one final change to the **Dockerfile** to get TLS working on Fargate.

Add the following two lines to the **Dockerfile** right after the `dotnet publish` command:

```dockerfile
# build and publish the app
...
RUN dotnet publish -c release -o /app --no-restore

ARG CERT_PASSWORD
RUN dotnet dev-certs https -ep /app/aspnetapp.pfx -p ${CERT_PASSWORD}

# final stage/image
...
```

> This will create a self-signed development certificate right within the Docker image, which we can use to run the application with TLS on Fargate for demo purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will create a self-signed development certificate right within the docker image, which we can use to run the application with TLS on Fargate for demo purposes.
```
aiming for consistent use of lowercase for docker image, docker file, docker container, as devs often do.
For naming the platform/product overall I'm keeping Docker uppercase.

> > **Note**: Using these development certificates is not recommended for production use. I'm using it here for simplicity as this is just a demo. For production setup, you should use a certificate signed by a certificate authority. The recommended way to run a production .NET application on ECS would be to use an AWS Application Load Balancer (ALB) to route traffic to a reverse proxy (Nginx) via an HTTPS listener configured to use a certificate signed by a certificate authority. The reverse proxy would then route traffic to the application. The reverse proxy and the application should also be configured to use TLS using valid certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note**: This type of development certificate is not recommended for production use. It is used here for simplicity in a demo. For a production setup, you should use a certificate signed by a certificate authority. Recommendation: to run a production .NET application on ECS, use an AWS Application Load Balancer (ALB) to route traffic to a reverse proxy (Nginx) via an HTTPS listener configured to use a certificate signed by a certificate authority. The reverse proxy would then route traffic to the application. The reverse proxy and the application should also be configured to use TLS using valid certificates.
```
conciseness and clarity

> Login to your AWS console and navigate to ECR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Log in to your AWS console and navigate to ECR.
```
style guide terminology

Click **Create Repository**.

> For visibility settings, choose **Private** and name your repository. In my case, I'm going with _okta-chat_. Then click **Create Repository** at the bottom of the wizard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For visibility settings, choose **Private** and name your repository. In this case, I'm going with _okta-chat_. Then click **Create Repository** at the bottom of the wizard.
```

{% img blog/dotnet-aws-ecs-fargate/16-reponaming.png alt:"AWS Create repo" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

> Navigate to **okta-chat** and click **View push commands** this has all the steps you'll need to build and push your image to ECR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to **okta-chat** and click **View push commands**.  This has all the steps you'll need to build and push your image to ECR.
```
fix sentence fragment

{% img blog/dotnet-aws-ecs-fargate/17-PushCommands.png alt:"Push commands" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Follow the steps and push the images to ECR. Make sure to pass `--build-arg CERT_PASSWORD=mypass123` to the `docker build` command like below.

```bash
docker build --build-arg CERT_PASSWORD=mypass123 -t okta-chat .
```

Select the copy button in the URI column next to your image and save that for later. This is the path to your image.

{% img blog/dotnet-aws-ecs-fargate/18-oktaChatRepo.png alt:"AWS save URI" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

> ### Set up the ECS Fargate Cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Set up the ECS Fargate cluster
```
style guide

Now set up your ECS cluster.

On the left menu, click **Clusters** under **Amazon ECS**, then click the **Create Cluster** button.

> Click **Networking Only** > **Next step**from the options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click **Networking Only** > **Next step** from the options.
```
add space

{% img blog/dotnet-aws-ecs-fargate/19-NetworkOnly.PNG alt:"AWS Networking Only" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

> I named my cluster "okta-test", name yours as you see fit, and click **Create** on the following screen click **View Cluster**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I named my cluster "okta-test", name yours as you see fit, and click **Create** on the following screen. Then click **View Cluster**.
```
fix sentence fragment

> Now that the cluster is set-up you'll need to create a task for your image to run as.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that the cluster is set up you'll need to create a task for your image.
```
style guide. i don't know how to rewrite "to run as" but it's ambiguous so i dropped it

Click **Task Definitions** on the left menu and click **Create new Task Definition**.

For launch type, select **FARGATE** and click **Next step**.

{% img blog/dotnet-aws-ecs-fargate/20-LaunchType.PNG alt:"Fargate launch type" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

For the **Task Definition Name**, I named mine **okta-chat**.

Set the **Task memory (GB)** to 0.5 GB.
Set the **Task CPU** to 0.25 vCPU.

> .NET Core applications are very efficient, as are containers. For many applications, you'll find you can serve many requests with smaller boxes than you might typically be accustomed to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.NET Core applications are very efficient, as are containers. For many applications, you'll find you can serve many requests with smaller boxes than you might expect.
```
conciseness

{% img blog/dotnet-aws-ecs-fargate/21-TaskSize.PNG alt:"Task size" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Leave other options unchanged.

Now you need to define the image you want to use. Click **Add Container**.

> I'll name the container the same thing **okta-chat**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I'll name the container the same thing – **okta-chat**.
```
punctuation

For the **Image**, you'll need the path you copied from the ECR repository earlier.

Set the soft limit to 512, and add ports 80 and 443.

{% img blog/dotnet-aws-ecs-fargate/22-AddContainer.PNG alt:"Add container ports" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Scroll down to the **ENVIRONMENT** section and add the following key-value pairs:

```bash
ASPNETCORE_URLS="https://+;http://+"
ASPNETCORE_HTTPS_PORT=443
ASPNETCORE_Kestrel__Certificates__Default__Password="mypass123"
ASPNETCORE_Kestrel__Certificates__Default__Path=./aspnetapp.pfx
```

{% img blog/dotnet-aws-ecs-fargate/27-add-env-vars.png alt:"Run new task" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

> Click **Add** at the bottom of the popup. Now click **Create** at the bottom of the page. Go back to your cluster, click on the **Tasks** tab, and click **Run new Task**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click **Add** at the bottom of the pop-up. Now click **Create** at the bottom of the page. Go back to your cluster, click on the **Tasks** tab, and click **Run new Task**.
```
style guide terminology

> > **Note**: It is recommended to create services instead of tasks for production so that you take full advantage of the elastic scaling capabilities of ECS. I'm using tasks directly for the simplicity of the demo. Using services is also required when using an ALB to route traffic to the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note**: Here's a recommendation: Create services instead of tasks for production to take full advantage of the elastic scaling capabilities of ECS. I'm using tasks directly for the simplicity of the demo. When using an ALB (application load balancer) to route traffic to the application, use of services is also required.
```
avoids passive voice. spells out the acronym

{% img blog/dotnet-aws-ecs-fargate/23-RunNewTask.PNG alt:"Run new task" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Select **FARGATE** as **Launch type**.

> Select your default VPC and Subnets under **VPC and security groups**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select your default VPC and Subnets under **VPC and security groups**.
```
add period

{% img blog/dotnet-aws-ecs-fargate/24-TaskSettings.png alt:"Task settings" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

> Click the **Edit** button next to the **security groups**. Click on **Add rule** to add a new inbound rule for HTTPS port 443. Click **Save** on the popup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the **Edit** button next to the **security groups**. Click on **Add rule** to add a new inbound rule for HTTPS port 443. Click **Save** on the pop-up.
```
spelling - style guide

{% img blog/dotnet-aws-ecs-fargate/28-security-group.png alt:"Task settings" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Now, click **Run Task**.

> You'll be taken back to your cluster. Select the Task you created by clicking its ID. Make a note of its public IP; you'll need that to adjust your Okta application settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll be taken back to your cluster. Select the task you created by clicking its ID. Make a note of its public IP; you'll need that to adjust your Okta application settings.
```
style guide

{% img blog/dotnet-aws-ecs-fargate/25-RunningTask.png alt:"Running task" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

In your Okta Developer Portal, go to **Applications** > **Applications** and click the application's name you created using the CLI. Edit the **General Settings** and add URI for **Sign-in redirect URIs** and **Sign-out redirect URIs** using the IP address from your running task as shown below:

{% img blog/dotnet-aws-ecs-fargate/26-update-okta.png alt:"Update Okta" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Now, if you navigate to `https://YOUR_FARGET_TASK_PUBLIC_IP`, you'll see you are the proud owner of a fully functional chat application, secured with Okta, running in an ECS Fargate container.

## Recap

Whew, that was a ride! Good job on making your new chat application. What can we take away from this?

- Serverless is good for HTTP request/response, but other protocols need something different.

> - Containers are more lightweight than Virtual Machines but come with their own challenges

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Containers are more lightweight than virtual machines but come with their own challenges.
```
consistent style

> In your Okta Developer Portal, go to **Applications** > **Applications** and click the application's name you created using the CLI. Edit the **General Settings** and add URI for **Sign-in redirect URIs** and **Sign-out redirect URIs** using the IP address from your running Task as shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your Okta Developer Portal, go to **Applications** > **Applications** and click the application's name you created using the CLI. Edit the **General Settings** and add URI for **Sign-in redirect URIs** and **Sign-out redirect URIs** using the IP address from your running task as shown below:
```
style guide

> Now, if you navigate to `https://YOUR_FARGET_TASK_PUBLIC_IP`, you'll see you are now the proud owner of a fully functional chat application, secured with Okta, running in an ECS Fargate container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, if you navigate to `https://YOUR_FARGET_TASK_PUBLIC_IP`, you'll see you are the proud owner of a fully functional chat application, secured with Okta, running in an ECS Fargate container.
```
remove redundant "now"

> - Serverless is good for HTTP request/response, but other protocols need something different

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Serverless is good for HTTP request/response, but other protocols need something different.
```
punctuation

> - A Docker file is just the instructions to build your application, what ports to expose, and launch it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A docker file consists of the instructions to build your application and launch it, and which ports to expose.
```
avoids the ambiguous "it" at the end. removes "just"

- Fargate makes the hosting of containers easier since you don't have to manage the host machine infrastructure.

> - SignalR makes real-time communication easier by abstracting most of the heavy lifting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- SignalR makes real-time communication easier by abstracting most of the heavy lifting.
```
period.

> - Vue can be used for state management without taking on additional build and development pipeline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Vue can be used for state management without taking on additional build and development pipeline.
```
period.

> - Okta makes securing any type of .NET web application easy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Okta makes it easier to secure any type of .NET web application. 
```
"easy" is always relative.

- There is no reason to have an insecure site!

> - Use AWS ALB + Nginx configured to use TLS with valid certificates in production

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use AWS Application Load Balancer (ALB) + Nginx configured to use TLS with valid certificates in production.
```
period.

Check the code out on GitHub [here](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-dotnetcore-aws-fargate-example).

> ## Learn More about AWS, .NET, and Authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Learn more about AWS, .NET, and authentication
```
